This is a coding style guideline to ensure consistency of the Quaremain's
codebase. Due to extreme flexibility and abundance of concepts
and tools that comes along with Common Lisp, I've decided to write
a set of "rules" to cover the programming conventions for this project. These
rules are based on other coding standards that I encountered when
programming Lisp.

This is neither a whole Common Lisp coding style coverage nor the
official language coding standards. This standards should
(or rather, must whenever possible) be applied to
Quaremain's Common Lisp project.

1. Maximum 80 columns/chararacters per line.

2. Use ** for global variables, <> for classes and
++ for constants.

3. Use ? as a predicate instead of p or -p. (experimental).

4. A block of composable function should remain small as much
as possible. Try to separate big functions into smaller ones.

5. Try to not make a function to call global variable directly.
Instead, pass it to the function through parameters.

6. If you need record types, try to use defclass from CLOS instead
of defstruct. The reason is, there are so similar and for
consistency reason, just try to use defclass. However, defstruct might
be useful in the simple cases as well. 

7. Defaults to single-dispatch for classes and methods. We don't
need multiple dispatch and other stuff from CLOS just because you can.
However, if you reached the point where you need to use those verbose
"design patterns" from the Java land and such, selectively pick
multiple dispatch or other good stuff from CLOS. Just be, consistent
and conservative when using them. Else, look onto macros.
Be clear. not clever.

8. Pick macro as the last resort when functions/methods fails to
provide what you need. Be aware of macro expansion time.

9. Consider do and dotimes over loop. If the formers ends up with
too much verbosity, pick the latter.

10. Use ASDF and uiop as much as possible for portability reasons. Use
#+ and #- for specific Lisp implementation code.

11. Pick an immutable over mutable approach when manipulating data structures
such as list.

12. Handle error exceptions as much as you can. Be defensive and paranoid
of your own code. Also, don't forget to log them.

13. Try to do automated test as much as possible. Small amount of test is
better than no test at all, but try to test every inch of the codebase.

14. Keep it simple and try to not duplicate large chunk of code.

15. Break any of these "rules" whenever it doesn't make any sense in your
situation. Please don't pick this coding style as your next cargo cult
holy testament. Eitherway, try to stick with any coding style you
prefer as much as possible, for consistency.
